# Capstone-Health-Home-project
##### The New York State Department of Health was first formed in 1901 with Daniel Lewis as the commissioner. The DOH is the department of the NYS government responsible for looking after the public health of NY. Today, the department is headed by Commissioner Howard Zucker, who was sworn in by Governor Andrew Cuomo in 2015. The DOH’s mission, as stated on their official website, is to “protect, improve and promote the health, productivity and well being of all New Yorkers.” The DOH ensures that quality health care services are available to residents and is responsible for promoting health activities, programs, and campaigns. One program run by the NYSDOH is the health home program.

##### A Health Home is a network of healthcare and service providers assembled personally for each individual to provide the correct treatment and service for a healthy lifestyle. This means that a Health Home is not a physical location or structure. Once integrated into a Health Home network, the user will be assigned a care manager who will develop a care plan and initiate connections with providers or services to assist the individual. To be admitted into the Health Home services, individuals must fulfill certain requirements, starting with the need to already be enrolled within Medicaid. In addition, individuals must either have two or more chronic health conditions or a single chronic health condition that qualifies. These illnesses include HIV/AIDS, Serious Mental Illness, Serious Emotional Disturbance or Complex Trauma. Individuals can also search through the NYS Department of Health page on Medicaid Health Homes to further determine if they qualify for the program. 
 
